# SharePoint 2010: Creating Content Types in Visual Studio 2010
## Requires
* Visual Studio 2010
## License
* Apache License, Version 2.0
## Technologies
* SharePoint 2010
* SharePoint Server 2010
* SharePoint Foundation 2010
## Topics
* SharePoint content types
## IsPublished
* True
## ModifiedDate
* 2011-08-04 11:44:54
## Description

<h2><strong>Introduction</strong></h2>
<p>Learn how to create a Microsoft SharePoint 2010 content type by using Microsoft Visual Studio 2010. This sample accompanies the article
<a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/gg295290.aspx">Creating Content Types for SharePoint 2010 in Visual Studio 2010</a> in the MSDN Library.</p>
<h2><strong>Description</strong></h2>
<p>A content type is a reusable collection of settings that can be defined and applied to data in a Microsoft SharePoint list or library. Microsoft Visual Studio 2010 provides project types that support the creation and deployment of content types.</p>
<p>This sample and the accompanying article demonstrate the following steps for creating and deploying a content type to a SharePoint 2010 site:</p>
<ul>
<li>A content type is created by using a wizard in Visual Studio 2010.<br>
The new content type has an ID that is formed by concatenating the parent content type identifier and a GUID that is generated by Visual Studio.
</li><li>The <strong>&lt;Field&gt;</strong> tag is used to define a new field that will appear on a content type.<br>
The <strong>ID</strong> of the <strong>Field</strong> should be set to a new GUID that will be unique for this field.
</li><li>The <strong>Field Type</strong> is set to <strong>Choice</strong>, and then the choice options are added.
</li><li>The <strong>ContentType</strong> element is then edited, so that it includes a
<strong>&lt;FieldRef&gt;</strong> tag that specifies the new <strong>Field</strong> that has been defined by reference to the
<strong>ID</strong> (GUID) of that new field. This ensures the field is included on this content type.
</li></ul>
